[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[Music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLotss podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal.
>> And I'm Tracy Aloway.
>> Tracy, every day feels like stocks and
gold go up. every day. Stocks and gold
and stocks and gold and it's just it's
relentless.
>> I'll tell you what, it's good for anyone
invested in an index fund and a bunch of
gold coins that their dad gave them.
>> Yeah, good for you.
>> Yeah, thank you.
>> The Tracy Elo portfolio doing very well.
>> Yes. No, you are absolutely right. And
the big thing about this is it's not
really supposed to happen, right? Like
you're not supposed to see stocks shoot
up because of optimism about the future
while gold simultaneously goes up
because gold traditionally is this sort
of dow yellow rock as you like to
describe it which usually signals
something bad is about to happen.
>> I'm going to relent. I'm going to relent
on something.
>> Are you a gold bug now?
>> No. Well, I'm going to relent on
something.
>> Okay, here we go.
>> I admit that gold is a metal. This is my
big cave. I always
>> No longer a rock.
>> Yeah, this is my big cave. I used to say
those yellow rocks. You know what? I'll
acknowledge it's a metal.
>> If it's a metal now, will you admit that
it has industrial applications?
>> Yeah, but they're very minor. And this
is also I will not acknowledge that
there is a I it is mainly a store of
value or perceived to be. And when
people are fearful, when people are
mistrustful, when people don't trust
fiat currencies or the governments, and
there's all kinds of reasons to be
skeptical about the governments that
issue paper currencies, I understand why
people want to hold this metal that
people have used as money for thousands
of years.
>> I'm going to take you back to the
jewelry district in New York and get you
more excited about gold again.
>> No. But I'll just say on gold, I loved
it. And and know I wore that big chain
when we went to the diamond district and
I wish id bought it. Like cuz now that's
like my big regret. It was like $35,000
gold necklace and that today would
probably be a $45 or $50,000 gold
necklace.
>> Imagine how much that diamond encrusted
Furby would be worth.
>> This is the thing they don't tell you
about gold, by the way.
>> If you spend$10,000, this is my crank
take on gold. That's not crank. If you
spend $10,000 on a gold necklace
>> Mhm.
>> they give you a $10,000 gold necklace.
>> Yes.
>> It's free. They It's like you spend
$10,000, they give you something for
$10,000 back. In a sense, it's a free
transaction.
>> No, you get two things. You get
something to wear and an investment.
>> Yeah. You actually Yeah. I wish I had
had this realization when gold was like
$200 an ounce, but anyway, it took me a
while. Anyway,
>> we'll make a gold bug of you yet, I'm
sure.
>> So, these are really exciting, wild
times in the market. And um the last
time uh we talked to this guest was
another wild time and an exciting time
in the market. That was of course April.
We do in fact have the perfect guest to
try to understand everything that's
happening all around the world in global
macro. We are going to be speaking with
the vice chair of global macro at
Deutsche Bank Ozan Tarman. Ozan thank
you so much for coming back on OddLots.
Last time we talked to you we were in
London. This time you're in New York. So
thank you for coming to visit us.
>> Very good to be in New York. I love to
be on this show. I mean honor to be
invited again. Una macro dinners. This
is the highlights.
>> Yeah, thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> And by the way, I was going to bring my
United AMA jersey. Dear Joe really looks
like him. And some baklava for Tracy,
but couldn't find in the airport. Next
time.
>> That's a good reason to do another
future episode. Actually, we talked a
lot about gold in the beginning, but I
don't want to first ask about gold. Is
Nvidia swallowing the entire US or maybe
even global economy?
>> Almost hand in hand, right? These two
questions. I mean they both continue to
go higher and higher.
>> Actually let me start with gold because
you did you did put such an intro in it.
>> One of the very famous memes on the
internet carer done maybe two three
years ago. uh this uh gentleman or lady
running a big macro hedge fund looks
around I run very complicated products
but at the end I buy gold and uh these
days that resonates even more mentioned
even more and more in these uh round
tables in TV studios like this normally
that jinx things but it doesn't because
at the moment it it works in risk on and
risk off last time you were around again
you called me at a very relevant time
questioning US exceptionalism I'm sure
we'll go into that Yeah.
>> What's going on with US institutions?
Those question marks, all those question
marks against the dollar help gold
effect is about stories against dollar.
I'm sure we'll go into this as well.
Some of the stories are now having a
less easy time.
>> Then people like to go into gold and
we're may be going into a rate cut
period cycle or not whether you're Miran
or Hamach that that differs but gold
works in that as well. So for the moment
I always feel you know when it's the top
trade on TVs on my round tables I put
the orange sign on but at the moment it
works for a reason. Now Nvidia yeah I
mean if you had this show a year ago as
well you could have said
>> as of this morning one of my partners in
success sos his piece is already viral
he's claiming tongue and cheek that
Nvidia is almost keeping us away from a
recession. all that chip story, all that
capex spending. If it wasn't for that,
maybe we could either question or be in
a recession.
>> I'm not sure he's saying it that tongue
and cheek though.
>> Agreed. And also others are uh joining
him. Uh again, I'm hearing from my dear
friends clients this very morning. Bane
claims unless uh revenues quickly catch
up with all this uh AI capex spend, we
may be in big trouble. All of this will
burst by 2030 and will go into recession
before then. Now we can say a lot can
happen before 2030 but warning signs are
there. Last night's uh big headlines the
reason why again NASDAQ close on the
highs.
>> Nidia investing into open AI that also
becomes almost circular. I mean this is
not tongue and cheek either.
>> Oracle invest in open AI openai invest
in Nidia back and forth back and forth.
Is this a closed circle? I hear all the
skepticism
also mainly coming from those who
haven't caught this big rally since uh
>> a bubble is a is a is a bull market that
that you missed out on.
>> I call gold a bubble. Tracy calls it a
boom because of the difference and
inherited a bunch of
>> gold. Exactly.
>> I should just mention we're recording
this on September 28th.
>> I like that. Right before right before
Paul's speech, right before Trump's
speech. So just on AI and the sort of
selfdealing
circleish circuitous incestuous
relationships perhaps one of the reasons
we like talking to you is because you
talk to a lot of clients and so you hear
a lot of feedback from the buy side as
well. What are people looking out for in
terms of saying okay this is a bubble
because it seems like all right people
have been talking about high valuations
for a really long time the stock just
goes up. Is there something else that
people are like watching for in which
case they might say actually we're going
to start cutting back positions?
>> Excellent question. Almost like two
months ago I was hearing more I'm
skeptical but Fed cuts are also coming.
You can't fight this. Now especially
from the pros who who've been around uh
' 90s and beyond. I do hear look this
does feel a bit like end of 90s
beginning of 2000s. By the way, the year
you pick is very important there. But we
may still run. That's one thing that
more seasoned equity beyond macro pros
are saying. I also, it was a bit the
beginning of my career, but I was around
in late '9s, early 2000s. Then the
denominator almost didn't exist in this
valuation discussions. There was hardly
any cash around. Everybody
>> stuck uh Joe.com is excellent in B2B,
even better in B2C. And you know, of
course, hindsight is the world's top
hedge fund, but you you could you could
feel it. Whereas this time around you
can question the 100 billions thrown
around in a circle but you cannot
question much the revenue the cash uh
Jensen Nvidia OpenAI is bringing to the
table you cannot question much let's go
beyond Nvidia a bit into Magnificent 7
Microsoft
Apple alphabet they have customers all
of us are are their customers they make
money so and in a way talking about
circle
more positive way of more glass half
full way of looking at it.
>> Nvidia is the big champ. Okay. But take
Nidia aside all of a sudden Oracle
became a story for a reason. From Oracle
we go to Alphabet because for this time
around Judge decided favorably on
Chrome.
>> The story continues moves from uh one
asset to another. Also yeah Nidia is
doing great. We'll talk about how uh
NASDAQ the Hercules is catching up with
my bluehead mega but it's uh rally is
spreading like Nvidia is not the top
stock in S&P year to date talking about
waiting for God though finally small
caps rose up
>> since the famous now Jackson another
famous Jackson speech
>> so it's not just one one guy is very
important November 19 earnings are very
important but it's not just one stock
>> by the way ozan was regailing us or
showing off his Make Europe Great Again
hat. It's signed by Mario Draghy. If I
owned that, I'm very jealous.
>> I would not be carrying it around. I
would be carrying it in a glass case and
selling it maybe for eBay.
>> You'd have it in the vault along with
your gold coins.
>> I would have it in the vault along with
my gold. But I uh I respect
>> That's how much how much I respect my
clients. I want to show off.
>> Before we go further, actually for
listeners who maybe uh didn't hear our
previous episode with you and April, can
you just give us a little back? You
talked to everyone. you have these
dinners, you it affords you an
incredible perspective on what a range
of people on the street are thinking
about just so that people can understand
your perspective and where you're coming
from. What do you do like on a
day-to-day basis? Who are the range of
people that you talk to and how do you
interact with them?
>> Uh my job is to talk to my bank's top uh
institution clients honest
talent relationships going going deep.
This also includes now sovereign wealth
funds, key private banking institutions
and I love I'm as you know I'm a person
who tries to bring things together. So
in these round tables small or big
>> it's not just hedge funds it's not just
real money it's not just for funds all
asset classes credit rates FX emerging
markets my proud tera equity of course
uh so they learn from each other as well
because uh we talked about the in these
shows and equity perspective can be very
different to a race perspective right as
we speak again we're in one of these
doldrums on if you define macro just as
rates and effects it's almost like a
magnet 412 Okay, we try we on US 10 year
we we tried below 4% 412 413 414 as
Tracy said we are recording this on
September 23 at 9:00 a.m. In 3 hours,
Chair Powell will speak. Let's see if he
changes tone or sticks to his so-called
hawkish presser. Some people hope that
may again ignite a little bit of another
stronger uh rates higher tone.
Otherwise, volatility in FX and rates
are struggling. Meanwhile, equities
continue to better and better. And back
to your question, different sets of
clients coming to my round tables,
coming to my realm, learn from each
other on why different asset classes act
differently.
[Music]
So, you mentioned the dollar just then
and of course you have a very
international group of clients that
you're talking to. Can we talk about the
dollar drop this year because I think
it's really important and even though it
gets some attention, it's nowhere near
enough because we're talking about
stocks rallying, US stocks rallying,
things look a lot different when you
start to adjust for currencies. How are
people thinking about US assets in light
of the dollar drop?
>> Very fair. I'm team ODLOS, so I also
remember last time we met is April 16 in
London. So just uh a week before the big
fear euro dollar was right around 110
111 we were beginning to sense that this
could be a historic year in terms of
this dorization hedge fund ratios
changing but we swiftly moved beyond 115
as well. Now looking at the picture two
things are very important. First of all,
the flaws. Back to our friend Nvidia,
back to our friend Magnificent 7.
>> Because one push back from some of my
especially fast money friends who all
either smell, want or wish a dollar
squeeze after such a soft dollar move is
what will the flows do? World continues
to buy Nvidia and Microsofts. Do they
buy it hedged?
>> So I was a little bit skeptical on that.
By the way, flows are back. So a big
difference to April 16. Yeah, we'll talk
we can talk about that as well. Retail L
rally. Look where we are. All-time
highs. My research reports and claims
again George Cervados that in the last
recent 30 45 days or so those flows
almost 80% of them are hedged. So people
are buying their Nidia hedged. So
believe it or not 80% is a big number.
Say 70 say 60 that definitely helps the
soft dollar side of things. What
continues to help is of course
institutionalists decreasing their
exposure to us like hindsight I said
rightly on that April 16 nothing to and
the US private side exceptionalism
Nvidia's Microsoft so far are fighting
back the threats of deepseek even though
champion of the year is China in terms
of performance but from Asia to Nordics
big big funds are reducing their dollar
exposure a little bit. 7 to 65, 60 to
55. That makes a difference. That made a
difference.
>> This is really important. I think we
should just continue on the specific
line because what it sounds like is all
around the world, you have to have
dollars to buy Nvidia. Nvidia is a stock
that's sold in dollars. Its profits are
denominated in dollars. Its sales, it
sells things in dollars. And that's the
same for all of the Mag 7, including
Microsoft and Apple. And all of them are
doing phenomenally well. They have real
profits, real earnings and so forth.
They're very excellent businesses. And
it sounds like basically all around the
world people want exposure to a handful
of extraordinary US companies. Correct.
They just don't want to take the risk
that that denominator and this time
we're not talking about earnings, but
that that or that the the dollar that
they trade in or sell in etc. is going
to go down further. So they want
everything about this. They just
basically don't want the US sovereign
exposure that's connected to these
American doiciled companies.
>> Completely correct. And honestly, I was
a little bit skeptic. I wasn't sure if
you told me Ozan this year this big
surge in back in Nidia Microsoft won't
happen then I would feel even more
comfortable with the short position. But
uh Magnificent 7 roared yeah
>> it may even pass mega despite that
dollar is also remaining soft. So
whether I was skeptical or not, what you
explained is happening. But I think for
the next legs, ours included a lot of
bianial site are calling for 1202 like
levels. You need now the European side
of the story or whoever you want to talk
about Japan, China, the lagger side of
the story. FX is too late. We talked
about why dollar side of short dollar
worked.
>> Yeah,
>> we need now a bit more help from our uh
European story.
Tracy, you know what strikes me as
interesting about this, which is that
when we think about countries where
there's political risk and so forth,
>> we don't often associate them with the
most impressive enterprises in the
world. And it strikes me that that's the
tension we're talking about here, which
is that there's all this anxiety about
the US as a sovereign for all kinds of
reasons. That's not unusual. Other
countries have sovereign risk. They're
just usually not home to literally the
most impressive companies in the world.
>> No. And it is true that most of the
investor nervousness around the US has
shown up on the sovereign side.
>> Yeah. Not the corporate side
>> rather than the corporate side which
we've been writing about in the Oddlots
newsletter
>> which everyone should subscribe to.
>> Seamless plug just then. Okay. One of
the other I guess big questions about
the market right now is there's clearly
nervousness about fiscal dominance and
Federal Reserve independence and that is
playing into the drop in the dollar too.
And yet at the same time, stocks seem to
be taking off and a lot of investors
don't seem to be that nervous, at least
on the equity side. What accounts for
the discrepancy there?
>> The two different roles. Talking about
plugins, I also love the New York Times
piece. I think you guys deserve all the
trust me all those friends clients, they
listen. They they get very excited when
I'm on. Now, Tracy definitely hit the
right point. Dolorization is one key big
theme going into the end of the year.
Fiscal dominance or not and the famous
Fed independence. Those are my second
and third key topics. By the way, where
are where are tariffs? All the way down
to four.
>> I forgot about those tariffs.
>> Fiscal dominance. So we talked right I
love uh brainstorming with you guys. You
remember what I said in August as well
summer everybody was everybody like some
key investors especially fast money were
gunning for from my dear island four key
trust moments in four countries at the
same time what does that mean I mean
trust moment we sadly know what I'm
talking about long yand getting out of
control for people's uh for markets big
fiscal
>> US UK Japan what's the fourth
>> for the right reasons Europe boom
>> for the right reasons because
ramp up the German spending will come at
the end of
um at the end of the year etc. Some key
investors were asking well one trust
moment we know how we handled chancellor
then prime minister goes different sets
of policies what happens if four goes at
the same time and we tried this on
talking about dates September 2 when you
guys came back from wherever you came
back from on the long uh final final
long vacation uh long weekend
>> UK guilts big move followed by France
because prime minister was about to go
in six days join Tracy How long did it
last? 4 hours. That long and sell off
lasted 4 hours. And I'm not trying to be
funny. Basically, since then, US 30
years uh Europe, even UK has been much
more under control up until the hish
presser almost uh threatening below 4%.
Even more than short dollars, Tracy,
over the summer and into fall, what were
the real money and hedge funds common
favorite trade? Steepeners. Steepeners.
Steepeners. Europe, US, everybody and
their brother had steepeners. First for
different reasons on US more due to the
short end that sooner or later will come
to the Fed independence. The Trump side
of the equation would win more finally
power would cave in the cuts would come
in and on the European side even more
popular because of the long end German
spending coming through in October
November and people believed in their
stance. First US got hurt two NFPS miss
long and moved big flatteners hurt gold
aside whenever you say or Nvidia aside
whenever you say somebody says a trade
is untouchable watch out European
stiffeners were supposed to be
untouchable
>> two days after that flattening wash out
in US Europe also got reduced and since
the hish presser we are we are more
balanced
>> on to fed independence again just this
morning of the press Matt Rasin my head
of US uh race strategy previously from
the Fed very respectable analyst wrote
about this Fed independence fear not
being in the price not in the break
evens not in the term premia
why I think a little bit because so far
let's dive right into it if you wish I
think this cut is justified in my mind
even if they cut 50 a week ago it could
have been justified talking about some
dear client's friends public so I may
say Rick Reer publicly on uh TV and on
his writing said they may and they
should cut 50 because I think if they
saw divisions in June and July they
probably would have cut in June and July
and going forward okay they they cut 25
not only they cut 25 m did his thing
probably that that's the dot but Waller
Bowman stuck to 25 even some of the
previous Fed governors racing for the
job Bullard says they should have done
25 so people are thinking and hoping
that there is still some Fed
independence. Powell, even though he's
the past man, has some control over the
situation. That's why we're not getting
any Fed independence here on the long
end.
>> Joe, it is interesting, and I would not
have expected this earlier in the year,
but if you look at the move index, so
the index of bond market volatility,
>> it's going down. It's gone down quite a
bit, which is not exactly what you might
expect to happen when we're talking
about things like fiscal dominance and
Federal Reserve independence, but there
you go. That is a good chart I haven't
looked at in a long time. I want to go
back to the gold conversation because we
kind of been dancing around like oh
political volatility in the US and
sovereign risk in the US etc. But like
let's talk about like gold in the US or
gold and the dollar like when you talk
to clients setting aside that it's a
good trade people want to ride a good
trade etc. How much fear, anxiety, etc.
is there about US political stability
and what are the and I mean a prominent
political commentator got assassinated
recently in the United States.
>> Sadly,
>> what are people at your dinners maybe
inside the US or outside dinner saying
about the US when they look at our
country?
>> That's why more and more countries are
building up their reserves in gold,
shying away from dollar more. My
motherland Turkey is an example again
publicly known in terms of reserves.
Also let's remember what is still going
on versus Ukraine and Russia the
sanctions that Russia has faced or may
face. So different countries are also
because of that leaning more towards
gold. So besides our macro discussions
uh ups and downs of rates that
uncertainty that uh question mark over
US policy that question mark over
geopolitics lead central banks to
accumulate more gold Joe for gold to go
down the game should change like this
year my game plan is going all right
again I I was on air I thought these big
air trust moments long and crushing
everything wouldn't happen I didn't
expect this much of a comeback but again
I said there would be a comeback
especially retail much more than pros
believed in this h media gold go hand in
hand together there should be something
off the left field for example maybe on
tariffs all of a sudden tariffs tongue
and cheek tracy are a bit the good boy
revenues they raise a lot of revenues
talks about it TV talk about it torren
stock talks about it if Supreme Court at
whatever time and that's also very key
when when they make the decision votes
against I'm sure they may I know they
may use S301 etc but will be all of us
oh a big that's a question mark now what
will the Trump administration do what
will best do longans can get going again
and even though it's got nothing to do
with necessarily Nim media and gold the
year's path may change and things like
that can take us off the
>> what about a big handshake with
Xihinping and a new I mean I don't know
what it would be and you know my dream
obviously is for a BYD factory in
Tennessee one day Xiaomi factory etc.
But could that be a oh this charts us in
a new direction something that is like a
real let's reset this relationship. I'm
not optimistic but would that be the
type of thing that could uh reset the
trajectory of certain markets? You talk
like my jaw like a globalist Tennessee
factory BYD. I mean that's not the pulse
at the moment but sure if that happens
>> my gut feel still says shortlived
correction but yes that's that what what
did I say that's not the pulse that's
not the New York pulse at the moment it
would be a positive surprise a little
bit less scared of things surprise
>> and uh yeah I could see that hitting
goal
[Music]
So, I know it's number four on your list
now, but we should talk about tariffs a
little more. And I take the point that
it could be a revenue generator for the
US and maybe that provides some support
on the bond side of things. But on the
other hand, I think most people would
argue that it would slow economic
growth, which should be a drag on the
equity side, but we haven't really seen
that. How are people talking about the
actual impact of tariffs right now? And
I got to say, Joe, I got my first
customs bill over the weekend. It wasn't
too bad. I think it was like $16 or
something, but they're here. I feel them
personally.
>> Very fair comeback, I guess. Especially
fast money crowd hasn't necessarily
given up on speculation.
>> My take sort part of the reason why all
these NIDA gold long and calls have been
correct. I like to fade the inflation
hoax and I like to fade the big
recession bears who are much more quiet
these days anyway. But yes, if President
Trump continues to stick to them, even
though on one hand they generate revenue
and keep the long end under under
control, there may be a growth impact on
the other side accompanied by splice
side immigration effects and the jury is
out there on dear Mr. whether led by him
whether this is the famous word three
words whether this is transitory or not
>> more and more some clients start to say
my binky the famous chief global
economist start to say maybe this tariff
effect wasn't as bad both on growth side
and on on inflation side these people
immediately get a push back early days
early days let's wait so will companies
continue to eat them and not pass that
much to the traces of the world to the
to the customer especially when we talk
of beyond 10% tariffs which most
countries face next year your country
faces a very key midterm elections so I
I think Trump and Bessant know that they
got elected because of inflation so the
moment the stackflation
camp starts to look like they are
proving correct even look like a bit of
a climb on inflation more slowdown on
growth I think we may we may get more
and more taco
because they want to win those uh
midterm elections then uh they would
take more and more steps lower on
tariffs but if they prove correct if
it's not reflected on the customer if
inflation continues to remain okay I
know it's not 2% but below 3% maybe this
uh status quo continues
>> sorry did you just call binky chada my
binky
>> yes I did even like when we there's a
lot of preparation going for these macro
dimmer as well trust me when he sends
his questions and his key bullet points
He tells me to start with my binky. So,
you got to
>> I don't think we've ever had him on the
podcast. We got We got to uh We should
>> Yeah, I I I've talked to him a couple
times on TV. Uh big fan of his. We got
to make that happen. When you think
about the US economy and maybe the
European economy, too, but I think it's
the US and you think about growth
prospects. This is something I've been
asking a lot of people about. like how
much do you think the US economy as a
just the forward momentum of the US
economy especially over the course of
your career how much has it become
dependent on this perpetual rise in
asset values and you think like do we
need a booming market year after year
just to keep that sort of like
consumption demand engine investment
engine going
>> well yes is the short answer I think the
details are even more complicated a bit
sad I think you need you we need in this
game that's it thing it the next thing
it was B2B B2C three decades ago uh 3D
now of course AI I AI past three years
>> and also US I mean again as I said the
country that gave my education right in
more open times for that relies on
growth relies on animal spirits relies
on those asset classes to go higher and
higher and that's why the Tracy question
from like 10 minutes ago is very key
whether we are at you know we're getting
there stage of the bubble or we at the
bubble because if that bursts economy
can get affected as well also Joe I'm a
big believer in the K economy the whole
uh terminology of that so I said this
again uh before on your shows world may
be more okay for whatever we define
ourselves as 1% 5%.1%
there's a much bigger part who are
struggling definitely on US but globally
as well some again it's a statistics
thrown out there these days 10% of the
US consumers accumulate almost 50% of
consumption and the rest much less
wealth effect is getting bigger and
bigger when I was in college running
around in this country again we were
talking about the wealth gap but now
this becomes relevant even macro
relevant that's why people like me are
okay with the rate cuts risk management
or not
>> when you encounter Americans in London
or Americans in Europe or anywhere
outside do they badmouth US policy do
they like talk about how terrible and
like how much our institutions s are
deteriorating and how we need to get
back to that sort of like good
old-fashioned IMF orthodox economics of
the good old days.
>> Okay, let me get the pass from Kobe and
do a bit of a shack. Look uh they do
it's some of especially if they have uh
like me born and b emerging markets but
now trading the whole wide world
>> and if they are Americans touring my
beautiful beautiful world they are
affected like they when they hear
conversations like this they understand
when they traded Turkey Hungary
Argentina and say okay because of this
politics financial repression I don't
believe it that's why I'm selling the
currency it was easier to do for
somebody else's land and currency.
>> Now, both it hurts them a bit and also
it becomes a bit of a dilemma, right?
They may continue to criticize some of
the things that are going on, but for
the arguments that I I laid out risk
parity at least the equity part
continues to do okay and US 10 years
still is not going to 6%. It frustrates
them. This brings me to not in the in
our big big ones but big thematics a key
point going forward much beyond the
fourth quarter what's going to win the
trust moments my symbolic way of saying
fiscal dominance or financial repression
>> again as somebody who's experienced in
these turkeys Hungary Argentinos of the
world
>> what does dear Mr. Best say is a former
client friend tell a friend bending the
curve he literally said I'll bend the
curve we will take care of the curve you
know he said banned he will not take
care of maybe through like they do being
very watchful over the auctions making
sure auctions go very well which they
have been one tips auction aside maybe
through buying much more on the short
end vice versa buying more on the on the
long end to make sure that those rates
stay under control operation twist Allah
1112 they may win over majorities
thought that fiscal dominance will win.
My Godfield continued to say
>> don't necessarily bet against whether
you like it or not. Fed and Treasury
working more closely together on this
all US financial repression.
>> Going back to your questions, some
clients, Americans I meet in New York,
London or S. Paulo are a bit takenback
by saying are we becoming a bit emerging
marketized? What do you mean by Treasury
and Fed working even closely together
this is not 2008 2009 but so far those
who bet towards that those who bet with
Mr. Bent did better on their long and US
views.
>> Speaking of the wide world, what are
your clients saying about China in
particular? Because, you know, I'm
looking at a very good Bloomberg story
on my screen right now. China floods the
world with cheap exports after Trump's
tariffs. And I think they just posted a
record trade surplus.
>> And there was another good article this
morning. China wanting to be a gold
storage hub, which I thought was really
striking.
>> He did become a gold hub gold
>> doing a Switzerland, I guess.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> But on the other hand, you know, growth
has been slowing in China and there is
deflation. But if you look at something
like the Shanghai composite, it feels
like people are starting to get a little
bit more optimistic. What are you
hearing?
>> Three parts of that. First of all, China
as an asset class. We have it here as
alongside golden emerging markets
champion of the year in December,
November, January earlier. Everybody and
their brother a bit like this. Not a bit
like the steepener trade of this August
early September. It was the top trade
going long dollar CNH.
>> These tariffs lighter they would be the
toughest on China. There is no way. All
the dollar CN calls were both starting
with 7 and a half strikes at 8. All of
that didn't materialize. Okay, we didn't
go to 690 680 but the CH is
appreciating. talking about the day we
made April 16 on April 9th the big fear
was on that morning when we questioned
the system April 9 morning China would
devalue big time big bank they didn't do
any of that and currently my head of
greater China trading 10 who namerop
nicely called this China tech and CN
rally thinks that and with his research
R&B strength has more legs to go because
wherever they go around the world Peru
ports Brazil Amazon forests following
the China corporates back to our
discussion these guys are full of
dollars out of their ears and now for
discussions for the points that you
mentioned they want to hedge a little
bit so they want to sell their dollars a
little bit and that's a big factor so
that's I think China tech will continue
to be the champion asset class gone to
my head maybe not going to 690 680 but I
am still betting with CN and R&B
strength over dollar strength one of
these leagers of the year will do better
to the world effect you guys actually
Bloomberg had a piece this very morning
like Tracy said on exporting this
inflation.
>> So two big countries in this in this
world our America and our China Mr.
Trump is doing what he's doing on the
tariff side. These other big countries
of the world don't necessarily fight
with the other big giant in the world
stage. So those cheap cars are coming
into Europe and beyond and that is a
macro factor. Why? Because ECB back to
blue hat now
they're done. Madame Lagard very
definely says they're done for now.
Madame Schneabel for now is winning the
discussion. Even Lane is sounding a bit
more like her, more hawkish.
Let's see. They don't we maybe we don't
have an inflation problem printing below
2%. If anything, my Mark W chief
European economist thinks it may go
lower to 1.6 1.5. If that happens, let's
see what their tone is come December,
come January. If this China continues to
export to this inflation, maybe even
though they don't say it now, they may
have to end up cutting. So that that's a
big factor for the European story. Joe,
we should have asked Ozan to wear his
Europe hat for this entire interview.
>> I know it's a cool hat. Ozan Tarman,
vice chair of global macro at Deutsche
Bank. Always a pleasure meeting up with
you. Always seems to be at exciting
times in the market. Uh, also we like
talking to you because it's just a list
of um Deutsche Bank analysts like, "Oh
yeah, we need to talk to that guy. We
need to talk to that guy." Follow my
job. Bring them on. Yeah, right. I know.
Good sales. Anyway, thank you so much.
>> This was great. Thank you so much.
[Music]
I love catching up with Ozan for all
kinds. Always really fun. He has a great
read on one of the popular trades. Oh,
for sure. Right now. And
>> or just the talking points, right?
>> And the talking points. this idea that
you know we we don't talk about the
Chinese market that much in terms uh
terms of the stock market we do a little
bit but the idea that from his
perspective long China is up there right
now with all the big ones Nvidia and
gold and up until recently the steepener
maybe that's fallen off a little bit
because it hasn't worked as well that
this is one of the sort of top tier
consensus trades right now something
that we should probably talk about
further
>> I also find it interesting that tariffs
have fallen from number one on the list
of concerns to like number four if that
>> no that's totally right I mean when we
when we talked to him that was middle of
April in London or early April I think
and so it was all about tariffs and yet
despite the fact that tariffs are not
top of mind for a lot of traders
apparently right now it is interesting
that still this idea to
>> we don't really want to have exposure to
the US per se we want to have exposure
to US companies but not the us per se.
That's all part of the story.
>> Speaking of which, another really good
chart to look at right now is gold
versus real rates. So, you can bring up
like tip yields or something like that.
And you can see there used to be a
really strong almost one for one
correlation and that's broken. Now,
>> that's very interesting, right? Because
it suggests that there's something else
going on, right? Because it's very easy
to say, okay, real rates, etc., they're
going down. You want to like
>> I think it's that sovereign concern.
>> It's that sovereign concern. It's like
something deeper and it may be deeper to
a lot of different sort of, you know,
western governments and fiat currencies
and so forth. A lack of trust, maybe
something that doesn't show up in a
traditional market showing up in gold. I
do think that's really important.
>> Yeah. All right. Shall we leave it
there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the Odd
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracee Aloay.
>> And I'm Joe Wisenthal. You can follow me
at the stalwart. Follow our producers
Kerman Rodriguez at Kerman Armano
Bennett at Dashbot and Kaleb Brooks at
Kalebrooks. For more OddLots content, go
to bloomberg.com/odlotss.
We have a daily newsletter and all of
our episodes. And you can chat about all
of these topics 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlotss.
>> And if you enjoy OddLotss, if you like
it when we get a read on what people are
talking about in markets, then please
give us a positive review on your
favorite podcast platform. And remember,
if you are a Bloomberg subscriber, you
can listen to all of our episodes
absolutely adree. All you need to do is
find the Bloomberg channel on Apple
Podcast and follow the instructions
there. Thanks for listening.
[Music]